Development Environment Setup

Be sure to change JonniiRingo Github username to your own or else the script will not work.


Welcome to the Development Environment Setup repository! This guide will help you quickly set up a macOS development environment
with essential tools for Node.js development and React projects.

Table of Contents

Overview
Setup Script
React Project Setup Script
Additional Information
Overview

This repository contains scripts to streamline your development environment setup:

setup.sh: Installs essential tools for Node.js development and other useful applications.
react-setup.sh: Automates the setup of a React project with a recommended structure and dependencies.
Setup Script

The setup.sh script installs the following tools:

Homebrew: A package manager for macOS.
Git: A version control system for source code management.
GitHub CLI: A command-line tool to interact with GitHub.
Node.js & npm: JavaScript runtime and package manager.
Visual Studio Code: A popular code editor.
Yarn: An alternative package manager for JavaScript.
Docker: A platform for containerizing applications.
Postman: A tool for testing APIs.
MongoDB: A NoSQL database.




                                                   Running the setup.sh Script
Clone the Repository:
bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/your-repo.git
cd your-repo
Make the Script Executable:
bash
Copy code
chmod +x setup.sh
Run the Script:
bash
Copy code
./setup.sh
What to Expect
Homebrew will be installed if not already present.
Git, GitHub CLI, Node.js, and other tools will be installed.
You may need to configure some tools further. For example:
GitHub CLI: Run gh auth login to authenticate.
Docker: Launch Docker from the Applications folder and follow the setup instructions.
MongoDB: Start MongoDB using brew services start mongodb-community.
React Project Setup Script

The react-project-script.sh script automates the creation and setup of a new React project. This includes:

Initializing a new React application.
Installing necessary dependencies.
Setting up a basic project structure.
Running the react-project-script.sh Script
Create a New React Project:
bash
Copy code
./react-project-script.sh
What to Expect
React Application: A new React project will be created in a directory of your choice.
Dependencies: Essential libraries and tools for React development will be installed.
Basic Structure: A recommended project structure will be set up.
Additional Information

Customize the Scripts: Feel free to modify these scripts to fit your specific development needs.
Feedback and Contributions: If you have suggestions or improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request.
For any questions or issues, feel free to reach out or open an issue on this repository.

